Project 4: Data Analysis Project: Patients Reviews on Specific Drug 

Program: R/RStudio

Abstract: As an introduction to data mining techniques, IST 707: Data Analytics was designed to provide and apply real world experience using data mining on business processes. For the term project in this course, we decided to run a data analysis of prescription drugs and the affects the users provided. One of the important fields is the medical and health sciences to consider social aspects through online discussions, blogs, reviews, and online survey. The health-related content shared through various online feedbacks or reviews contains hidden sentiment patterns that need to be identified and extracted through different sources ranging from statistical analysis and machine learning algorithm.  
In this regard, the online mechanism is very popular these days for online shopping, different products through different websites like online purchasing of medicine at door step. After purchases, several websites and blogs offer customers rate their products according to their satisfaction and quality of products and services and also by providing feedback facility by which customer can comment on a particular medicine or on quality of services. 
Our intention is to study the sentiment analysis of drug experience over multiple facets. That is sentiments learned on specific aspects such as effectiveness and side effects. We also intend to use the dataset in developing different models to be used to predict areas of the dataset as well the correlation between ratings, conditions, drugs and drugs usefulness. Our end goal is to find the highest performing drugs based on customer reviews for treating the underlying condition.

